---
title: "Experiments"
date: 2020-02-04T06:25:51-06:00
draft: true
---

Every new year resolutions are made yet a month later many have been given up. The idea of a resolution is awesome; make a commitment to achieve or build a new habit that will positively affect your life. But there's always that fact that I and everyone knows: most resolutioners will quit before February. Rather than resolve to one big thing why not try something else? Try a smaller thing?

Resolutions are a start, but there are better options. Resolutions are fragile because they’re so overreaching. They’re generally a huge habit or routine change with the all encompassing *I am resolving to do this forever* tied to them. The problem is we're focusing on the doing not the goal. If Tom's goals is to lose weight and his resolution is go to the gym four days a week maybe there is something else that would work better than going to the gym four days a week! That's why experiments are the best thing.

An experiment is a change you make for a month. At the end of the month drop, keep it, or modify it. The experiment can be working towards some goal you like or maybe just out of curiosity. Going back to Tom, let's say Tom is very, very, very obese. Going to they gym might help but probably limiting back his sugary soda intake would be a better way. So he tries halving his soda intake for a month while watching his weight. He hates cutting back but he knows he can quit at the end of the month so it's easier to stick with. He gets to the end and either he has lost weight or hasn't. From there maybe something else is going on.

We're complex. We do so many things and have so much intelligence and emotions pulling us in different ways figuring out what actually might work is really hard. Experiments allow us to modify, adjust, and be surprised! I'm currently waking up at 6AM. It sucks. I'm three days in and it sucks. And I know I'm going to make it to the end of the month and be surprised by the experience shift/ If I keep getting up at 6 I'll have a fancy new habit and if I go back to my normal time I'll be amazed by how much more natural it feels. Last month I quit coffee. It had no noticeable affect on the stability of my mood or productivity so I'm back on the coffee (just in time for 6AM mornings, thank God), but having that first cup of coffee afterwards was amazing and now I feel guiltless being back on the coffee.

[Quiting is sometimes the best thing you can do](https://www.amazon.com/Dip-Little-Book-Teaches-Stick-ebook/dp/B000QCSA54). Resolutions are so farreaching that generally we *should* quit them because they aren't actually the most helpful thing. Give experiments a try. Pick a goal (lose weight, be more productive, save money) then pick an experiment (no soda, no social media at work, put $1 into a savings envelope each night). **Do it for a month.** Keep with it. It's only a month! You can quit at the end of the month! Then at the end of the month decide on something else and maybe if the experiment was impactful enough it'll jus become another part of your life. Overtime these little experiments will turn into habits which turn into a lifestyle moving you towards your goals!